# x86 Registers

* A storage inside the processor core.
* Can be accessed at much higher speeds than conventional memory.

### 8086(16-bit) Registers

* 4 type of registers
  
#### General Purpose Registers (GPR)
* **AX, BX, CX, DX**:
* Has convention uses
    * **AX** is used like an acumulator in the operations.
    * **BX** is used as a base register used to hold the address of the procedure or variable.
    * **CX** is used as a count register, typically used to looping.
    * **DX** is used as a data register, typically used to multiplication and division.
* Can be represented as register of 16 bit (**AX**) or two of eight, replacing the **X** by **H** or **L** to access the Hight byte or Low Byte.

#### Segment Registers
* **CS, DS, ES, SS**:
  * **CS** is the code segment register and is the base location of the program code
  * **DS** is the data segment register and is the base location of variables
  * **SS** is the stack segment register and is the base location for the stack
  * **ES** is the extra segment register and is an aditional location for varibles and memory

#### Index Registers
* Content offsets for the segment registers
* **SI, DI, DP, SP**:
  * **DP**  is the base pointer register and is the offset of **SS** register used to locate variables on the stack
  * **SP** is the stack pointer register and is an offset of the **SS** to the location of the stack stop
  * **SI** is the source index register and is used in the copy of strings
  * **DI** is the destination index register and is also used in the copy of strings

#### Instruction Pointer and flags
* Basically points to the next instructuction to be executed, the flags contains the status flags of the process.
*  **IP**

### 8086(32-bit) Registers

* General Purpose Registers (32-bit)            -> 8
* Segment Registers (16-bit)                    -> 6
* Procesor Status Flags register (EFLAGS)       -> 1
* Instruction Pointer (EIP)                     -> 1    

#### 32-bit General Purpose Registers (GPR)
- | -
---------------- | ----------------
EAX              | EBP
EBX              | ESP
ECX              | ESI
EDX              | EDI

#### 16-bit Segment Registers
- | -
--------------- | ---------------
CS              | ES
SS              | FS
DS              | GS

#### Instruction Pointer and flags

- | 
--------------- |
EFLAGS          | 
EIP             | 

#### Specialized Registers
* 32 bit versions of the index registers in the 8086

        32-bit | 16-bit
-------------- | ----------------
ESI            | SI
EDI            | DI
EBP            | BP
ESP            | SP

### Pentium 4 (x64) Registers
* 16 GPR
* [x64 Architecture](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/x64-architecture)